Europe braces for another energy shock as Norwegian gas fields close
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/07/05/energy/norwegian-gas-strike-europe-energy-crisis/index.html
London (CNN Business)Norway has intervened to end a strike by oil and gas workers, the country's government said in a statement late Tuesday, citing concerns about Europe's energy crisis amid Russia's war in Ukraine.Natural gas prices spiked after Norwegian oil and gas workers went on strike over a pay dispute Tuesday, shutting three fields in the North Sea and threatening to escalate action over the course of the week.  Norway is Europe's second-largest energy supplier after Russia and the strike had pushed gas prices to their highest level in four months.The Norwegian government has proposed a compulsory wage arbitration to settle the dispute, the statement said."We normally exercise significant restraint before intervening with compulsory wage arbitration," Labor Minister Marte Mjøs Persen said after he summoned oil companies and workers to a meeting late Tuesday. "However, the serious consequences of the announced escalations have forced my hand in intervening."Read MoreThe Norwegian oil and gas employers' lobby had said the strikes could have halted almost 60% of Norwegian gas exports to Europe from July 9.The closure of the three fields resulted in the loss of the equivalent of about 89,000 barrels of oil a day, Norway's state-owned energy company Equinor said in a statement. Europe is trying to reduce its reliance on Russia's exports, which are already being curtailed by Moscow. Any sustained drop in Norway's output could deal a big blow to efforts to replenish gas stocks ahead of the winter, as well as raise the risk of a catastrophic energy shortage. Germany, the region's biggest economy, has already declared a "gas crisis" and warned it can't rule out introducing rationing to get through the winter. News of the strike helped push European natural gas futures prices up 5% to hit 172 euros ($177) per megawatt hour, data from the Intercontinental Exchange showed. That's the highest price since early March in the days following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. "The Ministry of Foreign Affairs emphasizes that Russia's offensive war against Ukraine has had a major impact on security of supply in many European countries," the Norwegian government said in its statement. "There is an immediate risk of additional energy shortages in Europe. A reduction in Norwegian gas deliveries will worsen the energy crisis, in addition to the inherent political, financial and societal consequences. Norway must do everything in its power to bolster European energy security and European solidarity against Russian aggression."An uncertain winterThe Norwegian strike came nearly three weeks after Russia reduced the flow of gas to Europe through the Nord Stream 1 pipeline and after it cut off three European Union countries and several energy companies for refusing to pay in rubles, rather than euros or dollars.  Gas flows through Nord Stream 1 are currently running at just 40% of capacity, according to an analysis by S&P Global Platts. To add to the uncertainty, deliveries through the pipeline are due to stop completely for 10 days from the start of next week for maintenance work. "The concern is rather that gas shipments may be even further reduced or not even resumed at all following the maintenance work," Carsten Fritsch, analyst for energy, agriculture and precious metals at Commerzbank, wrote in a note on Tuesday. "This would make it virtually impossible to replenish European natural gas stocks for next winter and would necessitate further-reaching political measures and cuts to gas consumption," he added.Gas storage facilities in the EU are about 59% full, data from Gas Infrastructure Europe show. That is about three percentage points below usual storage levels for this time of year, Fritsch said. Bigger headacheAlex Froley, an analyst at the Independent Commodity Intelligence Services, told CNN Business the bigger problem facing Europe was the closure of a major liquefied natural gas (LNG) plant in the United States. A fire at the Freeport LNG facility in Texas last month has temporarily stopped production. Normally, the facility produces about one-fifth of the US' LNG exports, according to analytics firm Vortexa.  In recent months, Europe has become increasingly reliant on imports of LNG to compensate for the reduction in Russian natural gas supplies. "Gas demand for heating is greatly reduced in summer, though, and Norway always carries out some maintenance in summer — so it's not an immediate physical problem for the market to see some reductions," Froley said. "[The Freeport LNG plant has] been a big source of supply for Europe this year, and isn't expected back until October at the earliest," he added.







Dow falls more than 500 points as investors fear that recession is looming 
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/07/05/investing/dow-down-500-pts/index.html
Story highlightsUpdated 4:23pm ET to simplify some language in the lede.New York (CNN Business)US Stocks plummeted in early Tuesday trading as investors' concerns of recession grew, but rebounded in the afternoon to close flat for the day. The Dow (INDU) fell by about 130 points, or 0.4%, after being down nearly 700 points earlier in the day The S&P 500 gained 0.2% after dropping more than 2% earlier and the Nasdaq Composite was up by 1.8%. Tech stocks buoyed markets as investors hope that a possible recession will lead to lower interest rates.  Last week markets closed out their most brutal first-half performance in over 50 years. All major indexes have fallen in four of the last five weeks, and the S&P 500 is in a bear market, more than 20% below its January 3 record high.The S&P 500's 20% decline in total returns for the first half of the year was the worst since 1962, according to analysts at Bank of America, and the second worst start to the year in their data history since 1935.Europe hasn't been this cheap for Americans in decadesRead MoreStocks in sectors connected to economic growth, like banks, also dropped Tuesday. Citigroup (C) fell by about 0.5%, while Bank of America (BAC) and JPMorgan (JPM) dropped by 1 and 0.4%, respectively. Oil fell by 8% and the U.S oil benchmark was trading below $100 which could bring some relief at the pump and ease recent constraint on consumers' wallets. Energy stocks took a hit, however. The S&P 500′s energy sector dropped by 4%. Conocophillips (COP), Halliburton (HAL) and Marathon Oil (MRO) were all fell by more than 6%. Some economists added to investors' concerns on Tuesday, saying they expect that gross domestic product fell for the second quarter in a row — which many consider a signal of recession.The benchmark 10-year Treasury yield and the 2-year yield inverted on Tuesday, which investors consider another bad omen for economic health. When short-term Treasury yields trade higher than long-term yields it could mean that markets are pricing in a recession and a cut in rates. After two quarters of record stimulus -- enhanced unemployment benefits, enhanced child tax credits and stimulus checks -- the economy is facing a fiscal drag, said David Kelly, chief global strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management in his third quarter outlook. The federal budget deficit is likely to fall from 12.4% of GDP in 2021 to less than 4% of GDP in 2022, he said, which would be the largest single decline since the end of World War II. Combined with a surge in 30-year mortgage rates, that "has raised the risk that the U.S. economy falls into recession in the near term," he wrote. Second quarter earnings will begin in earnest next week and investors are anticipating a slowdown there, too, said Ivan Feinseth, chief investment officer at Tigress Financial Partners. But there could be good news coming from the Fed when unemployment rates are released later this week. Feinseth expects data to show that the unemployment level is increasing in the US, which could be a signal that recession is imminent.  A decline in new jobs has increased expectations that the Federal Reserve will raise rates by 50 basis points at the conclusion of its July FOMC meeting later this month. Previous expectations had been for 75 basis points. 







Oil drops below $100 a barrel for first time since early May
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/07/05/economy/oil-prices-100-barrel/index.html
Minneapolis (CNN Business)For the first time in nearly two months, crude oil prices have fallen below $100 a barrel, reflecting investors' growing concerns about a US recession that could crimp demand for oil.The price of West Texas Intermediate crude tumbled as much as 10% Tuesday, to hit a low of $97.43 before closing at $99.50, down 8% on the day. Brent crude oil was down by more than 10% when it hit a low for the day of $101.10 a barrel, before settling at $102.77 at the close.It's the first time that WTI has been below $100 since May 11. That was also the last time Brent, which typically trades a bit higher, was below $102 a barrel. Brent has not been below $100 since April 25.Wholesale gas futures fell as well, down almost 10% for the day at the close, or 36 cents a gallon. The national average cost of a gallon of gas at the pump is now $4.80, according to the latest AAA reading, down one penny from Monday and 8 cents from a week ago. Gas prices crossed the $5 mark for the first time on June 11 and hit a peak of $5.02 a gallon on June 14.Read MoreRising fears about the chances of a recession are the primary driver of the latest sell-off in oil and gasoline futures, said Tom Kloza, global head of energy analysis for OPIS.Until fairly recently, oil and gasoline investors had believed that there was little in the way of market forces to keep prices in check in the near term. "There is now a perceived huge downward risk tied to recession risk," he said.There have been mounting fears of a recession in recent weeks, which has helped take oil prices sharply lower. Brent was at $123.58 a barrel on June 8, while WTI was at $122.11. But since that peak, the Consumer Price Index showed consumer prices hit a 40-year high, one of the key metrics that prompted the Federal Reserve to hike interest rates by three-quarters of a percentage point as a way of combating those price pressures. That has raised expectations that the central bank's aggressive moves to cool the economy could cause job losses and a recession.Oil and gas prices surged earlier this year after Russia's invasion of Ukraine prompted the United States and its European allies to sanction Russian energy exports, effectively choking off one of the world's largest producers.But the supply of oil is only part of the equation traders consider when bidding on oil futures. Demand is the other part. And nothing kills demand like a recession, which reduces economic activity overall. When people get laid off, there are fewer people driving to work or to the store or other destinations.The previous time gas hit a record high was during the Great Recession, when the national average reached $4.11 a gallon in July 2008. But by the end of that year, it had fallen 60%, to $1.62 a gallon, as demand plunged. But cheap gas was of little consolation to the nearly 3 million people who lost their jobs during those five months.So far, drivers have seen relatively little relief at the gas pump from the recent fall in oil and gasoline futures. The national average price of gas has fallen only 4%, or 22 cents, since the June 14 record, while wholesale gas futures have dropped 22% since topping out at $4.28 a gallon on June 9.US gasoline retailers have little incentive to cut prices more deeply with strong demand for gasoline with the summer driving season in full swing."There's no compelling reason for retailers to lower their price more with this strong demand," said Kloza. Americans to set road trip record for July 4, AAA predictsThere could be more price drops at the pump in the near term -- a decline of another 10 cents a gallon in the next week or so wouldn't be a surprise, Kloza said. Station owners who are paying less for wholesale gas will be watching to how much of the savings their competitors are passing on to customers before they set their own prices. But the expression that gas prices go up like a rocket and come down like a feather is likely to play out once again, Kloza said.There likely won't be any big declines until schools reopen and the summer driving season ends this fall, he predicted. There are also risks that further developments in Russian oil exports tied to the war in Ukraine or hurricanes hitting US oil infrastructure along the Gulf Coast could send prices climbing up rapidly once again."I wouldn't put away the fives used in gas price signs quite yet," he said.







US and China discuss economic challenges amid talk of tariff rollback
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/07/05/economy/us-china-tariffs-biden-intl-hnk/index.html
Hong Kong (CNN Business)The United States and China held talks Monday to discuss the huge challenges facing the global economy amid mounting speculation that some Trump-era tariffs could be cut to ease inflation and boost growth. US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen and China's Vice Premier Liu He — Beijing's top economic official — had a "substantive conversation" on a call, according to a statement by the US Treasury.The talks, which readouts from both sides suggest were initiated by the United States, were described as "candid" and come as Bloomberg and The Wall Street Journal report that the Biden administration may lift some tariffs on Chinese goods as soon as this week.China's Vice Premier Liu He and US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen had a "substantive conversation."The Chinese readout noted that the exchange was "constructive" and "pragmatic." It added that the two sides discussed "views on the macroeconomic situation and the stability of the global industrial chain and supply chain."Both sides agreed that the global economy is facing severe challenges, and placed "great significance" on better policy coordination between China and the United States, it added.Read MoreFrom the World Bank to Wall Street, there is a growing concern about the risk of a global recession, and inflation not seen in decades is hammering consumers in the United States and Europe. China's economy, meanwhile, has been battered by the country's zero-Covid policy. Analysts worry that the Chinese economy could contract in the second quarter, putting the government's annual growth target of 5.5% for 2022 out of reach.The Chinese side also "expressed its concern over issues such as the lifting of additional tariffs and sanctions imposed by the United States on China and fair treatment of Chinese companies," according to the Chinese statement.China's imports of Russian crude oil hit record highThe US readout did not mention tariffs or sanctions but stated that Yellen "raised issues of concern" including the impact of Russia's war against Ukraine on the global economy and what it called China's "unfair, non-market" economic practices.The call between the two senior economic officials comes after Bloomberg reported Monday that Biden may announce a "rollback of some US tariffs on Chinese consumer goods" this week. The report, which cited unnamed sources, said the move is seen "as a way to counter accelerating inflation."The Wall Street Journal also said Monday that Biden may decide on Chinese tariffs this week, citing people familiar with the situation, but added that the decision is "constrained by competing policy aims: addressing inflation and maintaining economic pressure on Beijing."The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment."The timing makes sense," said Jingyang Chen, Asian foreign exchange strategist at HSBC, pointing to the fourth anniversary on July 6 of the start of former President Donald Trump's trade war with ChinaEx-Trump adviser calls for lifting Trump tariffs on ChinaOn that day in 2018, US tariffs on $34 billion worth of Chinese imports took effect. Since then, tensions have ratcheted up dramatically, with the two sides imposing steep new tariffs on billions of dollars of each other's exports.Following months of negotiations, a trade truce was signed in January 2020. But bilateral relations have remained tense under the Biden administration. However, spiking inflation in the United States has fueled expectations that the administration will ease some of the tariffs to help curb rising prices. A cut in US tariffs is "around the corner," said Ken Cheung, chief Asian foreign exchange strategist at Mizuho Bank, on Tuesday.The Biden administration has "strong political motivation" to ease tariffs in order to bring down inflation before the mid-term elections in November, he added.— CNN's Beijing bureau contributed to this report.







Real estate crisis deepens as big Shanghai developer misses bond payment
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/07/04/economy/chinese-developer-shimao-default-intl-hnk/index.html
Hong Kong (CNN Business)Another major Chinese developer has defaulted on its debt, dealing a new blow to the ailing real estate sector in the world's second largest economy.  Shanghai-based Shimao Group failed to pay the interest and principal on a $1 billion bond due Sunday, according to a company filing to the Hong Kong stock exchange. The bond had no grace period for the principal, according to its offering document. It is the first missed debt repayment on a dollar bond by Shimao, which had been grappling with mounting financial stress for months.China's real estate sector has been lurching from one crisis to another since 2020, when Beijing started cracking down on excessive borrowing by developers in a bid to rein in their high debt and curb runaway housing prices. The problems escalated significantly last fall when Evergrande — the second largest property developer in China — began scrambling to raise cash to repay lenders. The embattled firm is China's most indebted property developer with some $300 billion in liabilities. It was labeled a defaulter by Fitch Ratings in December.Read MoreAccording to Moody's estimates earlier this year, Shimao Group has a large amount of debt maturing in 2022, including $1.7 billion worth of bonds held by international investors, 8.9 billion yuan ($1.4 billion) worth of bonds held by Chinese investors, and "sizable" offshore bank loans.An elderly couple walk past a sign in front of Shimao Tower, developed by Shimao Group Holdings Ltd., in Shanghai, China, on Saturday, Jan. 8, 2022. Founded by entrepreneur Hui Wing Mau in 2001, Shimao develops large-scale residential projects and hotels across the country. It owns Shanghai Shimao International Plaza, one of the tallest skyscrapers located in the heart of Shanghai. In March, the company estimated that its 2021 net profit had plunged about 62% from a year earlier, mainly because of the "harsh" environment facing the property sector.  It then delayed the release of its 2021 results, citing the lockdowns in Shanghai."Due to the significant changes to the macro environment of the property sector in China since the second half of 2021 and the impact of Covid-19, the Group has experienced a noticeable decline in its contracted sales in recent months, which is expected to continue in the near term until the property sector in China stabilizes," Shimao said in the filing on Sunday.The company added that it has been trying to reach "amicable resolutions" with creditors on its failure to make principal payments on other offshore debt. In the absence of an agreement, creditors could force the company to accelerate repayments. Since Evergrande's insolvency, a series of high-profile developers in the country have defaulted on their debts, including Fantasia and Kaisa.The industry's problems have been exacerbated by Beijing's zero-Covid policy and slowing economy. China placed many of its major cities — including Shanghai — under strict lockdown earlier this year to fight rising Covid cases, hitting business activity severely. Wheat down payments and free hogs: How Chinese developers are trying to sell homesBeijing-based Sunac China, one of the largest developers in the country, last month blamed the Covid outbreak for "significantly" hurting its sales in March and April and further exacerbating its liquidity crunch. At the same time, the developer admitted it had defaulted on a dollar bond.On Friday, a survey by China Index Academy — a property research firm — showed that prices for new homes in 100 cities plunged more than 40% in the first half of this year, compared with the same period last year.Authorities are trying to stem the bleeding. They have stepped up efforts to revive home sales by lowering mortgage rates and easing rules on home purchases. Some developers have come up with imaginative ways to spur sales — from accepting grain or garlic as down payment to offering pigs as an incentive to buyers. Although there are signs that sales declined less dramatically in June than previous months, the road to the property sector's recovery will likely be "quite bumpy," as Beijing remains committed to its zero-Covid approach, said Nomura analysts in a note on Monday.Evergrande, meanwhile, is preparing a huge debt restructuring plan led by the government. The developer plans to present its proposals before the end of this month.







Citi chief economist: Recession risk is rising
https://edition.cnn.com/videos/business/2022/07/05/economy-recession-risk-inflation-citi-nathan-sheets-firstmove-vpx.cnnbusiness
Tesla posts rare drop in sales in second quarter
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/07/02/business/tesla-sales-production-drop/index.html
New York (CNN Business)Covid lockdowns in China resulted in a rare drop in production and sales for Tesla in the second quarter.The electric automaker reported that completed sales dropped nearly 18%, to about 255,000 vehicles in the second quarter compared to the first three months of the year. Production fell 15% to 259,000.The company's factory in Shanghai was shut for several weeks in April due to lockdown rules in the city aimed at combating a surge in Covid cases. Problems getting parts from Tesla suppliers also limited Tesla's production even after the plant reopened. The lockdowns likely cost Tesla production of about 70,000 vehicles in the quarter, according to Dan Ives, tech analyst for Wedbush Securities.The company's statement said the issues Tesla faced in the early months of the quarter are now mostly behind it."Despite ongoing supply chain challenges and factory shutdowns beyond our control, June 2022 was the highest vehicle production month in Tesla's history," it said.Read MoreTesla does not release the geographic breakdown of sales in its monthly sales and production report. Only 45% of its revenue last year came from US sales, according to company filings. Industrywide car sales in much of China ground to a halt during much of the quarter due to the lockdowns. Most of Tesla's non-US sales came from vehicles built in Shanghai. Still, it marked the first time since early 2020 that the company experienced a drop in either sales or production compared to the previous quarter. That sales decline also was due to the lockdowns associated with the early global outbreak of Covid.Such drops have been rare at the fast growing company. Even with the falloff in production and sales compared the first quarter of 2022, both measures were up from year ago levels, as the company posted a 25% increase in production and a 27% increase in deliveries.Elon Musk says he's worried about keeping Tesla out of bankruptcyAnalysts surveyed by Refinitiv had been expecting the company to post a 46% increase in revenue in the quarter compared to a year ago, and a 51% jump in adjusted income. The more modest increase in year-over-year sales could temper those expectations, and put further pressure on the company's share price. Shares of Tesla have fallen 35% so far this year.The company opened two new plants in the quarter, one in Germany and another in Texas. But problems ramping up production at those factories meant the output at those plants was "puny" in the first two months of the quarter, Tesla CEO Elon Musk said in a recent interview.







Healthcare stocks may keep your portfolio from needing a checkup 
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/07/03/investing/stocks-week-ahead/index.html
A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business' Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here.New York (CNN Business)Forget about an apple (or Apple) a day. Healthcare stocks may help keep the investing doctor away.Shares of Apple (AAPL) have plunged more than 20% this year. The FAANGs of Big Tech and other momentum stocks have been hit hard due to worries about slowing earnings growth and a weakening economy. But many blue chip healthcare stocks have been solid gainers in this bear market for the Nasdaq and S&P 500.Merck (MRK) and biotech king Amgen (AMGN) are among the top performers in the Dow. Drug supplier McKesson (MCK), cystic fibrosis treatment maker Vertex (VRTX), Big Pharma leader Eli Lilly (LLY) and insurer Cigna (CI) are all winners in the S&P 500 too. Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMY), Lilly and insurer Humana (HUM) are even near all-time highs.It's worth noting that these aren't the big Covid vaccine stocks either. Pfizer (PFE), BioNTech (BNTX), Moderna (MRNA) and Novavax (NVAX) have all cooled off in 2022 after enjoying huge pops last year. Antiviral drug makers Gilead (GILD) and Regeneron (REGN) are in the red this year too. The strong gains for other healthcare stocks are being driven more by the current economic cycle than the pandemic. Health care stocks often hold up well during tumultuous times. They are perceived to be stable companies that offer products and services people need even during a recession. Read MoreAnd many of the healthcare leaders also pay big dividends and are fairly cheap compared to the rest of the market.These US companies will cover travel costs for employees who need an abortionSolita Marcelli, chief investment officer of the Americas at UBS Global Wealth Management, noted in a recent report that healthcare is "trading at an appealing valuation for a late-cycle environment." She added that since 2003, global healthcare stocks have tended to outperform the broader market by more than 6% at times when the manufacturing sector is slumping. (The ISM Manufacturing Index reading for May was the second lowest since May 2020.)Lauren Goodwin, an economist and portfolio strategist at New York Life Investments, added in a report that "as long as economic growth remains in flux," investors should stick with quality stocks with "a defensive bent." She specifically cited healthcare, as well as utilities and real estate, two other sectors known for big dividends.An uptick in mergers could also give the healthcare sector a further boost. Pfizer, Bristol-Myers Squibb and GSK (GSK) (formerly GlaxoSmithKline) have all announced multi-billion dollar deals this year. There are risks, of course. Depending on the outcome of the midterm elections, healthcare companies could come under more scrutiny from regulators and politicians. If Republicans win control of the House and Senate, there could be questions about the future of the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) and what that could mean for drug prices.But as long as the Federal Reserve is aggressively raising interest rates and investors continue to fret about inflation, healthcare stocks may hold up just fine no matter what happens on Capitol Hill."There has been a flight to quality in the stock market," said Edward Campbell, co-head of the multi-asset team for PGIM Quantitative Solutions. "I'm not surprised to see more classically defensive sectors like healthcare continue to do well." All eyes on jobsRecession fears are growing thanks to rate hikes, surging oil and gas prices and concerns that the housing market will finally cool. But one of the most important parts of the US economy — the labor market — remains strong.Workers are in the proverbial driver's seat, commanding healthy paychecks as many businesses find it difficult to hire workers in the midst of the Great Resignation. But could even the job market be poised to finally take a turn for the worse? The government reports the June payroll figures Friday. The data will wrap up a busy week of jobs news, including weekly unemployment numbers and monthly reports from payroll processor ADP about private sector jobs as well as the government's job openings and labor turnover (JOLTS) survey. Opinion: Why so many workers are still quitting their jobsEconomists are forecasting that 295,000 jobs were added in June. That's still a healthy amount, but lower than the 390,000 jobs gained in May as well as the revised jump of 436,000 jobs in April. The unemployment rate is expected to hold steady at 3.6%, but it is likely to eventually start creeping higher. According to projections taken at the Fed's latest meeting earlier this month, members of the central bank are predicting that the unemployment rate will end this year at 3.7%, rise to 3.9% next year and hit 4.1% in 2024.That's still historically low of course. But there are concerns that American workers won't be able to keep up with rampant inflation as wage gains start to slow. Average hourly earnings rose 5.2% year-over-year in May, down from a 5.5% rate in April.Economists, investors and job seekers will be keeping a close eye on the figures for June to see if there is a further deterioration in wage growth.Up nextMonday: US markets closed for Independence DayTuesday: US factory ordersWednesday: US ISM non-manufacturing index; US Fed minutes from June meetingThursday: ADP private sector US jobs; weekly US jobless claims; US JOLTS; earnings from Levi Strauss (LEVI)Friday: US jobs report for June







Is the worst over for markets? No one can say
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/07/01/investing/premarket-stocks-trading/index.html
A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business' Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here. You can listen to an audio version of the newsletter by clicking the same link.London (CNN Business)Few investors will have experienced a tougher beginning to a year than the six-month stretch that just finished. Professionals have been beaten down, while amateur traders — used to 2021's eye-popping rallies — were dealt a harrowing reality check.What's happening: The S&P 500 notched its worst start since 1970, plunging 20.6% between January and June. The Dow had its largest first-half drop since 1962, and the Nasdaq Composite had its largest percentage decline ever. A nasty combination of circumstances has been hammering stocks. Russia's war in Ukraine has driven inflation higher, exacerbating concerns about how aggressive central banks like the Federal Reserve will need to be to rein it in. That's boosted fears of a recession this year or next. Coronavirus lockdowns in China, the world's second-largest economy, have also fed anxiety.

Predicting what will happen in markets over the next six months is unusually difficult. The path forward remains treacherous, with the Fed pledging to move one month at a time."It's all about inflation right now," Markus Schomer, chief economist at PineBridge Investments, told me. "That's the only thing that matters, and how the Fed responds to it."Read MoreOptimists believe that at this point, the bad news is mostly priced in. Schomer noted that the core Personal Consumption Expenditures price index, an inflation measure that strips out volatile food and energy costs and is watched closely by the Fed, increased by 4.7% year-on-year in May, down from 4.9% in April."I think the picture is starting to come together," Schomer said. "Supply chain disruptions are easing everywhere. Commodity prices are not coming down yet, but they're not going up as fast either. All we need is oil to stay at $100 [per barrel] and inflation will come down."That's a big "if," of course, given the state of energy markets. Rising rent and housing prices — a stickier form of inflation — also require monitoring.But Schomer thinks stock market sentiment is likely to improve in the second half of the year as investors realize the situation isn't as bad as they previously thought and bet on the Fed successfully bringing down inflation without triggering a recession."I think we probably have a stabilizing market in the second half as we churn through this information," he said. He predicts stock markets will finish the year above current levels.Others remain skeptical that the worst is behind us. Strategists at Goldman Sachs told clients on Thursday that stocks could keep falling later this year since "equities are pricing only a mild recession" and more companies will likely begin reducing their earnings expectations. In the event of a recession, Goldman's team sees the S&P 500 dropping to 3,600, or 4.9% below Thursday's close.What everyone agrees: It's going to stay rocky for some time, and iron stomachs will be necessary. The Fed's job remains difficult, and there's a big risk it goes too far, lifting borrowing costs so high that it really hurts business activity or consumer spending, and sends growth into reverse."Until the growth/inflation mix improves, markets are likely to remain volatile as investors shift between inflation frustration and recession obsession," Goldman's strategists said.OPEC and allies stay the course as oil prices pull backThe Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and allies including Russia will stick with their strategy of steadily increasing oil output despite pressure from the West to do more to help lower crude prices.The latest: The OPEC+ group previously decided to increase production by 648,000 barrels per day in July and August. It announced Thursday that it's sticking with that plan.That means that as of August, production cuts announced in 2020 to cope with the effects of the pandemic will have been "fully unwound," according to Giovanni Staunovo, an analyst at UBS.Global oil prices have dropped from nearly $123 per barrel at the beginning of June to below $112 as recession fears have come to the fore. Demand for fuel falls when the economy contracts.But a number of factors could push oil prices higher over the medium-term. Europe is working to quickly reduce its reliance on Russian oil, heating up competition for alternative barrels. Additionally, OPEC+ is only likely to meet half of its goal for increasing production in August as spare capacity dwindles, Staunovo noted. "Several members are already struggling to increase production in line with the deal," he said in a note to clients.That means crude prices should climb as demand continues to outstrip supply. Staunovo forecasts a global oil price of $130 per barrel in September.Watch this space: The price outlook will further focus attention on President Joe Biden's trip to Saudi Arabia scheduled for the middle of this month. Biden said Thursday that he doesn't plan to directly ask Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman to increase the kingdom's oil output, and that the responsibility lies with a broader group of Gulf states.High gas prices won't stop record July 4 car travelAfter years of postponed vacations and caution, Americans are eager to travel — and refuse to be deterred by high energy prices.Nearly 48 million people are expected to travel 50 miles or more from home for the July 4 holiday weekend, according to AAA. That's a 3.7% rise compared to 2021 and brings travel volumes almost back to 2019 levels.Expensive gasoline isn't getting in the way. AAA forecasts that 42 million people will hit the road between June 30 and July 4, a record."Earlier this year, we started seeing the demand for travel increase and it's not tapering off," said Paula Twidale, senior vice president of AAA Travel. "People are ready for a break and despite things costing more, they are finding ways to still take that much needed vacation."On the radar: As global oil prices have receded, the national average for a gallon of regular gasoline has dropped back to $4.84 from an all-time high of $5.02 in the middle of last month.But surging demand for fuel over the summer, which is peak driving season, will serve as another source of upward pressure.Up nextThe ISM Manufacturing Index for June, which tracks the US industrial sector, arrives at 10 a.m. ET.Coming next week: Economists expect to learn that America added 295,000 jobs in June. That's still strong, but lower than the 390,000 increase in May.







Billionaire Mukesh Ambani is bringing Pret A Manger stores to India
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/07/01/business/pret-a-manger-launching-india-ambani-reliance-hnk-intl/index.html
New Delhi (CNN Business)One of the world's richest men is launching Pret A Manger in India, adding the British coffee and sandwich store brand to a huge business empire that spans energy, retail and telecommunications.A unit of Mukesh Ambani's conglomerate Reliance Industries said on Thursday that it has entered into a "long-term master franchise partnership" with Pret A Manger and will "launch and build the brand in India."Darshan Mehta, the managing director of Reliance Brands, said in a statement that the partnership was rooted in the "strong growth potential" of the Pret brand and India's food and beverage industry.  With its population of 1.3 billion and rapid growth, India is a key market for international food brands, including coffee shops. In 2012, Starbucks (SBUX) opened its first store in the country, by partnering with a unit of India's largest conglomerate Tata Group.Mehta said that Pret A Manger — which means "ready to eat" in French — has strong brand recognition in the South Asian country. Top UK supermarket stops selling Heinz baked beans in dispute over rising pricesRead MorePret A Manger opened in London in 1986 and now has more than 500 shops in the United Kingdom, United States, France, Dubai and Hong Kong. Last September, it announced plans to double the size of the business within five years, including moving into five new markets by the end of 2023. Reliance Brands said it would "open the food chain across the country starting with major cities and travel hubs," but a spokesperson declined to share more details.This is not the first time Ambani has struck a deal with a major British brand. In 2019, Reliance bought iconic toy store Hamleys from its Chinese owner C Banner International for around £68 million ($88 million).According to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, Ambani is currently worth $93 billion, making him the second richest Indian, and the ninth wealthiest person in the world. 







'Minions: The Rise of Gru' breaks box office records
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/07/04/media/minions-the-rise-of-gru-box-office/index.html
New York (CNN Business)The Minions went bananas at the box office this weekend.Illumination's "Minions: The Rise of Gru" — the latest animated film in the Despicable Me franchise — made an estimated $125 million domestically for its four-day opening weekend, according to Universal.That gives the film the record for biggest opening over the July 4th holiday weekend, overtaking "Transformers: Dark of the Moon," which made $115 million in 2011. The opening is a huge shot in the arm for theaters. The industry has been anxiously waiting to see if families — who have been somewhat reluctant to bring their children to the movies during the pandemic — would return to theaters. While there have been family-friendly hits such as "Sonic the Hedgehog 2," this question became more pressing after Disney (DIS)'s and Pixar's "Lightyear" flopped at the box office last month. But the performance of "Minions" shows that not only do families want to come back, but they'll come back in large numbers for the right film.Read More'Minions: The Rise of Gru' is long on silliness and songs, and short on plot"Families want to be in theaters," Jim Orr, Universal's president of domestic theatrical distribution, told CNN Business. "They want the social event of it all."Why "Minions" did well is likely a mixture of good reviews (it holds a 71% score on Rotten Tomatoes), being the next installment in a franchise that's made roughly $4 billion worldwide — and possibly even TikTok, after the social media site created a viral trend that had moviegoers dress up in formal wear to see the film."Minions" was originally set for release in 2020, but was delayed multiple times due to the pandemic. While other family films decided to go to streaming, Universal held "Minions" for theaters — a strategy that paid off handsomely this weekend."A knockout performance by 'Minions: The Rise of Gru' may not have been guaranteed, given the less-than-stellar results for some recent family films," Paul Dergarabedian, senior media analyst at Comscore (SCOR), told CNN Business. "But the undeniable appeal of those silly Minions contained in a perfectly executed movie-theater-only confection was pure cinematic catnip for kids and parents."Now, theaters hope to keep the hot streak going as they prepare for what could be one of the biggest films of the year: "Thor: Love and Thunder." The latest Marvel film, which has Chris Hemsworth reprise his role as the God of Thunder, hits theaters this weekend.







US regulator wants Apple and Google to remove TikTok from app stores
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/06/29/tech/fcc-google-apple-tiktok-block/index.html
Washington (CNN Business)A member of the Federal Communications Commission is renewing calls for Apple and Google to remove TikTok from their app stores, citing national security concerns surrounding TikTok's Chinese-based parent company, ByteDance.In a June 24 letter to the CEOs of Apple (AAPL (AAPL)) and Google (GOOGL (GOOGL)), FCC Commissioner Brendan Carr described ByteDance as "beholden" to the Chinese government and "required by law to comply with [Chinese government] surveillance demands." Citing a recent BuzzFeed News report that ByteDance's Chinese staff had accessed US TikTok users' data on multiple occasions, Carr said the allegations showed how TikTok is "out of compliance with the policies that both of your companies require every app to adhere to."TikTok moves US users' data to Oracle servers to address security concernsApple and Google didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. In a statement, TikTok called the BuzzFeed report "misleading.""Like many global companies, TikTok has engineering teams around the world," TikTok said. "We employ access controls like encryption and security monitoring to secure user data, and the access approval process is overseen by our US-based security team. TikTok has consistently maintained that our engineers in locations outside of the US, including China, can be granted access to U.S. user data on an as-needed basis under those strict controls."In a statement, Buzzfeed News said it "stands categorically behind our reporting that US user data was accessed by China-based TikTok employees far more frequently than previously known, and we're glad that TikTok even confirmed this in its own statement."Read MoreFor years, US officials have expressed concerns that Chinese government access to US users' data or communications could put national security at risk. But whether Carr's plea will work is uncertain. The FCC plays no role in regulating internet-based services such as app stores, and prior efforts by the US government to ban TikTok from US app stores have faltered amid court challenges. Decisions about how and whether the FCC should act would require buy-in from Chairwoman Jessica Rosenworcel, who leads the independent federal agency. The same day as the BuzzFeed report, TikTok announced that it had migrated its US user data to Oracle cloud servers based in the United States, and that it would eventually be deleting backups of its US user data from its own proprietary servers. Carr wrote in his letter that he was not assured by the announcement. "TikTok has long claimed that its U.S. user data has been stored on servers in the U.S. and yet those representations provided no protection against the data being accessed from Beijing," he said. "Indeed, TikTok's statement that '100% of US user traffic is being routed to Oracle' says nothing about where that data can be accessed from."- CNN's Oliver Darcy contributed to this report







Italy, Greece and Spain haven't been this cheap for Americans in decades
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/07/05/investing/premarket-stocks-trading/index.html
A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business' Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here. You can listen to an audio version of the newsletter by clicking the same link.London (CNN Business)If you're an American visiting Italy, Greece or Spain this summer after a travel hiatus during the pandemic, you're in luck: Meals, hotels and tours are more affordable in dollars than they've been in two decades.What's happening: The euro has slumped to about $1.03, plunging more than 8% against the US dollar year-to-date. It's now trading at its lowest level since late 2002.Most analysts don't think it's bottomed out yet. Predictions are flying around that it could even reach parity, in which one dollar can be swapped for one euro."I'm bearish on the euro until I see a headline that tells me global growth is going to pick up in a big way," Nomura strategist Jordan Rochester told me. He thinks the euro will hit parity by the end of August.

Breaking it down: What's good for American tourists is tough on European businesses that need to buy energy, raw materials and components priced in dollars. The rising cost of imports could continue to boost prices across the 19 countries that use the euro, where annual inflation jumped to a record high of 8.6% in June.Read MoreWhat's triggering the sell-off of the euro, the second most-used currency in the world? Analysts point to a few factors.The first is the economic outlook. Recession fears are rising globally. But Europe's proximity to the war in Ukraine, and its historic reliance on Russia to meet its energy needs, has made it more vulnerable than the United States.Natural gas prices in Europe are at their highest level since March. Russia has cut flows of gas to Europe, and the major Nord Stream pipeline is about to undergo maintenance. Energy workers in Norway have just gone on strike, threatening further supply constraints. "We have an upcoming winter crisis for the euro zone and I expect energy prices will remain very strong," Rochester said.The euro tends to perform poorly when risk appetite among investors pulls back.Another issue is trade. Germany just reported a rare monthly trade deficit, a sign that high energy prices are weighing on manufacturers in Europe's export powerhouse. A weaker euro then becomes necessary to make the bloc's exports more competitive. Europe has also been behind the United States in raising interest rates, though the European Central Bank expects to begin hiking this month. That means investors are more likely to park their money in the United States, where they can net better returns. As interest rates climb, there are concerns that bond markets in countries with high debt loads like Italy and Greece could come under strain. The ECB has said it will work to prevent what it refers to as "fragmentation," but it remains a risk traders are monitoring closely.Clients "are very concerned about all things European," Societe Generale strategist Kit Juckes said Tuesday. "Germany's trade data yesterday went down badly, and the sense that the current account surplus is being battered by energy prices is widely spread. Add in worries about fragmentation and fear that the global economy is turning south, and it's hard to get even slightly upbeat about the euro."It's Bezos vs. the White House vs. inflationDecades-high inflation has the White House's attention as it tries to assure Americans that it's taking price increases seriously. That's ramped up finger-pointing at Corporate America, which the Biden administration says is making the problem worse."My message to the companies running gas stations and setting prices at the pump is simple: this is a time of war and global peril," President Joe Biden tweeted over the holiday weekend. "Bring down the price you are charging at the pump to reflect the cost you're paying for the product. And do it now."That sparked an outcry from Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, who has been increasingly outspoken on Twitter."Ouch. Inflation is far too important a problem for the White House to keep making statements like this," he tweeted in response. "It's either straight ahead misdirection or a deep misunderstanding of basic market dynamics."Veteran venture capitalist Bill Gurley also jumped into the fray. He said he "totally" agreed with Bezos, pointing to "the past three hundred years of economic research and understanding."The White House pushed back on the criticism. "Oil prices have dropped by about $15 over the past month, but prices at the pump have barely come down. That's not 'basic market dynamics.' It's a market that is failing the American consumer," Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said on Twitter. "But I guess it's not surprising that you think oil and gas companies using market power to reap record profits at the expense of the American people is the way our economy is supposed to work."Checking the numbers: US oil prices have pulled back over the past month as recession fears have come to the fore. West Texas Intermediate futures, the benchmark, were last trading at about $108.50 per barrel, compared to over $118.50 a month ago. That $10 difference is smaller than the White House's number.Yet it's true there hasn't been overwhelming relief at the pump. The average price of a gallon of regular gasoline is $4.80. One month ago, it was $4.85, compared to $3.13 one year ago.Is that the result of price gouging? Perhaps in select cases. But the biggest drivers of fuel prices right now are elevated demand and limited supply, particularly of gas and diesel. That's the result of disruptions from the pandemic, the war in Ukraine and the arrival of summer driving season in the northern hemisphere. Lack of investment in refining capacity is also exacerbating the issue.$380 oil? JPMorgan sees a scenario where that's possibleShortly after Russia invaded Ukraine, global oil prices surged above $139 a barrel. They were last trading below $113. But strategists at JPMorgan Chase see a possible scenario in which "stratospheric" $380 crude could be on the cards, making recent gains look puny by comparison.Step back: Last week, G7 leaders agreed to hash out a plan to cap the price of Russian oil. This would allow the country's discounted barrels to keep hitting the market but reduce Moscow's revenue.Details are still being nailed down. But in theory, to receive insurance from Western companies for their cargoes, customers like China and India would agree to pay only $50 to $60 per barrel.That would curb income for the Kremlin, which has estimated the price of its export barrels will top $80 by the end of 2022.But JPMorgan's team, including strategist Natasha Kaneva, warns that Russia could retaliate by intentionally curbing oil output as it's done with natural gas. That would send prices through the roof. If it slashed production by 3 million barrels per day, the bank forecasts prices could jump to $190 per barrel. In a "worst-case scenario" of a cut of 5 million barrels per day, prices could hit $380."If the geopolitical situation requires, it now appears more likely that export cuts could be used as leverage / policy tool, in our view," Kaneva and colleagues wrote this month.Up nextUS factory orders for May post at 10 a.m. ET.Coming tomorrow: Investors will comb through the minutes from the Federal Reserve's June meeting.







Scandinavian airline SAS files for bankruptcy after pilots go on strike
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/07/05/business/sas-scandinavian-bankruptcy/index.html
StockholmScandinavian airline SAS has filed for bankruptcy protection in the United States to help accelerate restructuring plans, it said on Tuesday, warning strike action by pilots had impacted its financial position and liquidity.Wage talks between SAS (SASDF) and its pilots collapsed on Monday, triggering a strike that adds to travel chaos across Europe as the peak summer vacation period begins.That accelerated the airline's decision to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the United States, the airline's Chief Executive Anko van der Werff said at a press conference on Tuesday.The company said in a statement it would continue to serve its customers throughout the bankruptcy process, although the pilot strike is impacting its flight schedule.It said the purpose of the filing with a US federal court was to accelerate a restructuring plan announced in February.Read More"Through this process, SAS aims to reach agreements with key stakeholders, restructure the company's debt obligations, reconfigure its aircraft fleet, and emerge with a significant capital injection," SAS said in a statement.It expects to complete the Chapter 11 process in nine to 12 months, it added. SAS shares fell as much as 6% after the filing was announced, and were trading 2% lower at 0728 GMT (0228 a.m. ET)During the pandemic, other non-US airlines including Avianca (AVH), Aeromexico and Philippine Airlines have used the Chapter 11 process to renegotiate contracts with key suppliers like aircraft lessors while continuing to operate.Norwegian settles dispute with Boeing and buys 50 737 Max jetsRival Norwegian Air emerged from bankruptcy protection involving courts in Dublin and Oslo last year. "It doesn't mean anything for the normal operations. They are trying to repair the motor while driving," Sydbank analyst Jacob Pedersen told Reuters of the SAS filing."This is happening because SAS hasn't been able to accomplish the changes through negotiations."SAS needs to attract new investors and has said that in order to do that it must slash costs across the company, including for staff and for leased planes that stand idle because of closed Russian airspace and a slow recovery in Asia. The airline said on Tuesday its assessment was that its cash balance of 7.8 billion Swedish crowns ($756 million) was sufficient to meet its business obligations in the near term.SAS said discussions with lenders regarding another $700 million of financing to support its operations during the restructuring were "well advanced."It added however that the strike "has a negative impact on the liquidity and financial position of the company and, if prolonged, such impact could become material."Nordnet analyst Per Hansen said the application showed SAS needs a fresh start and that it thinks the strike will drag on."Chapter 11 protection comes early," he said. "Management and the board want to make it absolutely clear for all stakeholders that the situation is very serious."







Subway is redesigning its menu
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/07/05/business/subway-new-menu/index.html
New York (CNN Business)Subway is launching a new menu, and it's the most extensive makeover in the company's nearly 60-year history.The main appeal of the sandwich chain is that people can make their own custom sandwiches. Yet the seemingly limitless combinations slowed down the speed of the lines at its restaurants. Subway's new menu is aimed at streamlining those choices. Beginning Tuesday, customers will be greeted with a refreshed menu board in its roughly 21,000 US restaurants featuring 12 sandwiches in what it's calling the "Subway Series" menu.The new, more neatly organized menu is divided in to four categories (Cheesesteaks, Italianos, Chicken and Clubs) consisting of three sandwiches each. All 12 sandwiches are new to the menu, with some essentially replacing previous versions with new names and slight tweaks. For example, the Meatball Marinara sandwich is now called The Boss with newly added melted mozzarella cheese. Subway's new menu is now available. Subway says people can order the sandwiches by their new names or by their assigned numbers. And the sandwiches can be made with bread, wrap or have its topping placed on a bed of lettuce. Customers, of course, can still choose custom options if they prefer.Read More"Complementary flavors and an expertly crafted balance of proteins, cheese, sauces and fresh vegetables are designed to maximize taste and crave," the chain said in a press release, adding that the changes allow customers "to explore new options beyond their beloved build-your-own customization."Last year, Subway rolled out an updated menu including 20 new and refreshed ingredients for some of its breads and meats. For example, Subway began slicing its turkey and ham more thinly and brought back past items like rotisserie-style chicken and roast beef. The refreshed menu was part of its "Eat Fresh Refresh" ad campaign, which will be tweaked to promote the new "Subway Series" menu.Sales at Subway's US locations have been falling in recent years, according to the research firm Technomic. System-wide sales at Subway's US locations were $12.3 billion in 2013, which was its best year of the past 15 years. in 2021, sales slumped to $9.4 billion, according to Technomic's analysis. The number of locations has declined for the fifth year in a row to 20,746 per Subway's website. Subway is a privately held company and does not publicly disclose sales figures.







Priyanka Chopra blasts 'shameful' Indian body spray ad
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/06/06/asia/priyanka-chopra-india-body-spray-ad-rape-culture-outrage-intl-hnk/index.html
 (CNN Business)A television commercial for a male body spray has been taken off the air in India, after critics said it made light of gang rape.Bollywood celebrities including Priyanka Chopra, Richa Chadha and Farhan Akhtar are among those to have lambasted the commercial for Layer'r Shot, a brand of male fragrance, calling it "shameful," "disgusting" and "incredibly tasteless."Its controversial advert shows four men appearing to stalk a frightened-looking woman in a store before cutting to one of the men saying, "We're four, there's one, who takes the shot?"Only when the woman turns round does it become clear they are talking about the body spray -- which one of the men then takes from a store shelf and uses.The commercial caused a storm on social media, where critics including various celebrities blasted its innuendo as making light of rape. Read MoreMany said the timing of the advert made it particularly insensitive, as it was broadcast just a week after a case in which a 17-year-old was allegedly raped by five men in the southern city of Hyderabad -- the latest in a series of high-profile crimes against women and minority groups across the country."This advertisement is clearly promoting sexual violence against women and girls and promoting a rapist mentality among men. The advertisement is cringeworthy and should not be allowed to be played on mass media," wrote Swati Maliwal, chairwoman of the Delhi Commission for Women, to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on Saturday. Indian actress Priyanka Chopra, who called the ad "shameful and disgusting".Within 24 hours, the ministry had taken the commercial off the air and asked Twitter and YouTube to remove it from their platforms.In an email to Twitter, the ministry said the videos were "detrimental to the portrayal of women in the interest of decency and morality" and violated the digital media ethics code.In a statement Monday, Layer'r Shot apologized for the television advertisement, saying it "never intended to hurt anyone's sentiments or feelings or outrage any woman's modesty or promote any sort of culture, as wrongly perceived by some."The brand said it had voluntarily asked all its media partners to stop broadcasting variations of the advertisement from Saturday with immediate effect.Even after the commercial was taken down, it continued to cause a controversy. Actress Richa Chadha was among those registering her disgust, calling the makers of the commercial "filth."Deadly rape of Indian woman has 'shaken the nation once again'"Creatives, script, agency, client, casting... does everyone think rape is a joke?," Chadha tweeted. Responding to Chadha's Tweet, Quantico star Priyanka Chopra called the ad "shameful and disgusting" and said she was glad that the ministry has taken it down.Film writer and director Farhan Akhtar also slammed the advertisement."What incredibly tasteless and twisted minds it must take to think up, approve and create these stinking body spray 'gang rape' innuendo ads. Shameful," tweeted Akhtar, who is also a United Nations Women's Goodwill Ambassador.Actress Swara Bhasker said both the perfume brand and its marketing agency had been "tone deaf" given the alleged gang rape of the teenager in an upscale part of Hyderabad last Saturday. The case has shocked the state of Telangana, of which Hyderabad is the capital. Telangana's home minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali said on Saturday that "strong action will be taken against all the offenders, irrespective of their background." It was "a ghastly incident," the minister tweeted on Saturday.An earlier version of this story gave the wrong last name for UN Women's Goodwill Ambassador Farhan Akhtar  Additional reporting by CNN's Esha Mitra







India is restricting exports 
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/05/25/business/india-sugar-export-restrictions-food-prices/index.html
New Delhi (CNN Business)India has decided to restrict the sale of sugar on international markets, just days after it banned wheat exports. In a statement on Wednesday, the Indian government said it will limit sugar exports to 10 million tons for the marketing season that runs through September to keep prices in check. Sellers have also been asked to seek "specific permission" from authorities for any export of sugar between June 1 and October 31.India is the world's biggest producer of sugar and the second largest exporter behind Brazil. The government of Narendra Modi said it needed to take action to maintain sugar stocks in the country after "unprecedented growth in exports" last year and in the current season. The move to limit exports comes at a time when annual retail inflation in Asia's third largest economy hit 7.8%, its highest level in nearly eight years, in April. It is also another sign of rising food protectionism around the world, as major producers curb agricultural exports, adding to the supply shock triggered by Russia's invasion of Ukraine in February. Ukraine and Russia together account for about 30% of all wheat exports. India offered to help fix the global food crisis. Here's why it backtrackedIn the current marketing year, which runs from October 2021 to September 2022, Indian sugar mills have so far signed contracts for exports of about 9 million tons. In the previous 12-month period, the country shipped 7 million tons of the sweetener overseas, which was the highest amount in recent years, according to government data.Read MoreWhite sugar futures were trading 1% higher at $556.50 per metric ton on Wednesday in London. They've gained 13% since the start of January and are about 26% higher than this time last year.Russia's invasion of Ukraine has contributed to a historic shock to commodity markets that will keep global prices high through the end of 2024, the World Bank said last month. Food prices are expected to soar by 22.9% this year, driven by a 40% rise in wheat prices, it added. Earlier this week, Malaysia moved to restrict exports of chicken to its neighbors, saying "the government's priority is our own people." And, just days earlier, India had banned wheat exports, as life-threatening heat waves stunt output and push local prices to record highs. The country is the world's second biggest producer of wheat after China, but it is not a major exporter of  the commodity.Speaking at the World Economic Forum in Davos on Tuesday, India's commerce minister Piyush Goyal said that "our export regulation should not affect global markets.""We continue to allow exports to vulnerable countries and neighbors," he added.Despite these reassurances, India's restrictions underscore the fragility of the global food situation. Global buyers were hoping that Indian wheat shipments would help fill the gap created by the war in Europe, which has hit vital shipments of agricultural exports.However, there was some good news last week. Indonesia said it would lift a ban on exports of palm oil, which was put in place in April. The Southeast Asian country is the world's top producer of the product, which is widely used as cooking oil and in many food items.







Why India's young investors prefer bitcoin to stocks
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/03/03/investing/india-cryptocurrency-investing-future-hnk-intl/index.html
New Delhi (CNN Business)Indian businesswoman Swati Daga first bought bitcoin in 2017, when the cryptocurrency was trading well under $3,000. Her decision to invest in digital currencies was met with wariness by her family, she recalls. "The elders in my family told me not to throw my money away," said Daga, who runs a food business near New Delhi.But the 33-year-old hasn't regretted her decision — bitcoin's value has increased 15 times since then — and she continues to invest as much as 10% of her savings in cryptocurrencies, including bitcoin and ethereum. "I find stock markets boring," she told CNN Business, adding that she enjoys the "thrill" and "recklessness" that comes with investing in volatile currencies.  She is not the only one.  Read MoreIndia has seen a huge boom in cryptocurrency trading since the start of the pandemic, even though authorities in Asia's third largest economy have for years expressed concerns about digital currencies, and even flirted with banning them. Entrepreneurs in the industry told CNN Business that the country has the potential to become a crypto superpower, since it is one of the hottest internet markets in the world, with 750 million users, and hundreds of millions more yet to come online for the first time. India ranked second behind only Vietnam last year in a list of countries seeing the fastest growth in cryptocurrency adoption, according to a report published in October by blockchain data platform Chainalysis.While the government does not keep estimates of how many people trade cryptocurrencies, industry experts have suggested that the country may now have more than 20 million crypto investors. The growth is driven by younger investors — mostly under the age of 35 — and many of them are coming from smaller cities and towns, founders of two of India's biggest crypto exchanges told CNN Business. According to Sumit Gupta, CEO and co-founder of exchange CoinDCX, many Indian millennials have started "their investing journey with crypto."While 20 years ago, their parents chose to invest in gold, these youngsters "are more interested in having bitcoin as part of their portfolio," Gupta told CNN Business, referring to the fact that traditionally Indians chose to park their money in gold or savings accounts. Buying gold is both an investment and a cultural habit in India, which is one of the largest markets for the precious metal, according to the World Gold Council. It also considered auspicious by Hindus and Jains, and plays a fundamental role in many religious ceremonies.Mumbai-based CoinDCX became India's first crypto unicorn last year, achieving a valuation of $1.1 billion after raising money from investors such as Coinbase Ventures and B Capital Group. The company says 70% of its 10 million users are between the age of 18 and 34. The CoinDCX app is seen on a phone screen in West Bengal, India, in August 2021.Data shared by rival firm WazirX tell a similar story. WazirX also has over 10 million users, and called 2021 a "phenomenal year" for crypto trading in India. The company was acquired by Binance, one of the world's biggest cryptocurrency exchanges, in 2019.Over 65% of its users are under the age of 35, according to a recent company report, and it has seen a "700% increase in the number of participants from smaller cities like Guwahati, Karnal, Bareilly, thereby signaling the growing interest from rural and semi-urban areas." Pritish Kumawat, a crypto trader from a small town in the western state of Rajasthan, said that he now finds conversations about cryptocurrencies in almost every tea shop in his area. Often, the most engaged participants are college students, he said, adding that bitcoin's massive spike last year has fueled the frenzy in India. In November, bitcoin was trading at a record high of $68,990, but it has since fallen to around $43,000. In addition to bitcoin, meme currencies such as dogecoin and shiba inu are also popular among Indians, the WazirX report added. Apart from investors from smaller towns, both companies saw an increase of more than 1000% in the number of women users on their platforms, albeit on a small base.Gupta said that participation of crypto by Indian women has seen "a massive upside" in the past 18 months and is "fairly high, fairly healthy, relative to equity markets." The company's data shows that 15% of their overall users are women — which is the global trend as well.On-again, off-again relationshipThe excitement over crypto is rising in India despite the country's on-again, off-again relationship with digital currencies. The central bank has long expressed concerns that cryptocurrencies can be used for money laundering and to finance terrorism. A cryptically worded proposal posted on the Indian parliament website last year even suggested the government was exploring plans to "prohibit all private cryptocurrencies in India."This year, however, started on a more cheerful note for enthusiasts. Earlier this month, the Indian government announced it would impose a 30% tax on income from virtual digital assets, which many industry experts took as a sign that crypto trading won't be banned after all. The government also said it would launch a digital rupee in the coming months. "Taxation of virtual digital assets or crypto is a step in the right direction. It gives much-needed clarity and confidence to the industry," Gupta said at the time of the announcement.Siddharth Menon, the co-founder of WazirX, told CNN Business that following the announcement, his platform saw daily sign-ups jump by over 50%. He also noticed rising interest among Indian developers and other professionals in joining the crypto industry. WazirX's website is shown in New York, USA, in April 2021."I'm getting LinkedIn messages" from senior executives in India, who are now more optimistic about the business, he said. In the past, Indian exchanges have struggled to hire and retain experienced people due to the lack of clear regulations. But the Indian government soon put a damper on the mood, by clarifying that the cryptocurrencies are not yet legal in the country."I am not doing anything to legalize it or ban it or not legalize it," Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in parliament a few days after announcing the tax rate. "Banning or not banning will come subsequently ... But I will tax because it is a sovereign right." "I think the government is not entirely sure what it wants to do from a policy perspective," said Anirudh Rastogi, founder of tech law firm Ikigaw Law, which works with crypto exchanges in India."It knows where it wants to land broadly. It wants to find the right balance where it is not disconnected from the global progress in blockchain and other tech, but it wants to also address concerns regarding cryptocurrency."Rastogi added that the "extraordinarily high" tax on crypto is a short-term fix, which will also acts as a deterrent to many investors. "This rate is typically used to tax activities that are not considered economically productive, such as lottery," he said. "So this could be an indication that the government wants to make revenue, but it does not see crypto trading as economically productive."For equities, India applies a 15% short-term capital gains tax if shares are sold in less than a year, and 10% if sold after a year.Gupta hopes that the government makes up its mind soon. India, with its vast pool of developers and enthusiastic young population, could be a "superpower in the next five to 10 years," in cryptocurrency and blockchain industry, he said. "What is missing right now is a clear regulatory framework," he added.







The billionaire vaccine prince whose plans went awry
https://edition.cnn.com/2021/11/02/business/adar-poonawalla-risk-takers/index.html
As Covid-19 wreaked havoc around the world last year, the 39-year-old son of an Indian billionaire was laying the groundwork for a plan he hoped would eventually end the pandemic.Adar Poonawalla — the CEO of Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's largest vaccine maker — pumped hundreds of millions of dollars into his Indian manufacturing facility and committed to make millions of doses of a then-unproven coronavirus vaccine. That vaccine, created by Oxford University and AstraZeneca (AZN), was still in clinical trials at the time. Nobody was sure how long a vaccine would take to develop, let alone whether it would even work. "It was a calculated risk," Poonawalla told CNN Business. "But I didn't see the choice at that time, to be honest. I just felt I'd regret not committing one way or another."Adar Poonawalla, CEO of Serum Institute of India, chose to commit to making a vaccine while it was still in clinical trials.To make his plan work, Poonawalla first had to raise nearly $1 billion. And the lives of hundreds of millions of the planet's most vulnerable people were at stake, since SII had pledged to provide poorer countries with jabs. If the gamble paid off, Poonawalla would save countless lives and be hailed as a hero during a period of historic turmoil. His fabulously rich family also would stand to grow even more wealthy by profiting from a significant deal. Read MoreAs the world gave its money — and trust — to Poonawalla, things seemed to be going according to plan. The AstraZeneca vaccine received approval from UK regulators in December 2020, and Poonawalla became a household name in India. "It was a calculated risk. But I didn't see the choice at that time, to be honest. I just felt I'd regret not committing one way or another."SII CEO Adar Poonawalla, on committing his company to make millions of doses of a then-unproven Covid vaccineBut soon it became evident how badly Poonawalla had miscalculated the challenges that come with distributing millions of vaccines in the middle of a once-in-a-century pandemic. His company's ability to inoculate even his own countrymen was thrown into doubt earlier this year as a devastating wave of coronavirus hit India. He's also failed to keep up with his commitment to deliver shots to other nations — the consequences of which have dented his reputation and shed light on the perils of such heavy reliance on one manufacturer. From horse breeders to vaccine makersIt's easy to see why some of the biggest names in public health chose to rely on Poonawalla. Few manufacturers can come close to the scale at which SII is able to produce vaccines. The company — which was founded by Poonawalla's father, Cyrus, 55 years ago — produces 1.5 billion vaccines each year for measles, rubella, tetanus and many other diseases. The jabs are mainly distributed to low-income countries worldwide, including India. Poonawalla estimates that just over 50% of the world's babies depend on vaccines made at SII. The Poonawalla family charted an unusual path to becoming one of the world's preeminent vaccine makers. They have bred and raced thoroughbred horses since the 1940s, diversifying into pharmaceuticals, finance and real estate over the last half-century.Cyrus Poonawalla is now India's seventh-richest man, worth more than $16 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaire Index. His son Adar took over as CEO in 2011 and has focused on expanding in international markets. To prepare for the AstraZeneca vaccine production, Poonawalla said he spent $800 million on buying chemicals, glass vials and other raw materials, as well as ramping up manufacturing capacity at his plant in the Western Indian city of Pune. More than $250 million came from the company's own funds. Another $300 million came from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which SII collaborated with to provide discounted or free doses to low-income countries. The rest was paid by other countries once SII started accepting orders for vaccines. In total, SII agreed to make up to 200 million vaccine doses for as many as 92 countries, as part of its deal with the Gates Foundation and Gavi, a vaccine alliance.All of that happened, though, before regulators signed off on the AstraZeneca vaccine. Had trials for that vaccine been unsuccessful, SII would "just be making batches and then end up throwing them away," Poonawalla said.Poonawalla said he spent $800 million on materials including chemicals and glass vials to prepare for vaccine production.A business studies graduate of London's University of Westminster, Poonawalla said SII was able to make that decision more swiftly than many other companies, since it is a family-run business. "The flexibility of being able to decide on the spot very quickly was really the main game-changer that enabled us to be able to do this," said Poonawalla, whose office in India is a refurbished Airbus A320. After UK regulators approved the vaccine, Poonawalla began supplying doses to Indians and other other countries. By May, Gavi had received some 30 million jabs from SII. India's Covid-19 tsunamiBut Poonawalla's plans soon went awry when a second wave of Covid-19 hit India in the spring. At its peak the country was reporting over 400,000 cases per day, though experts say the actual number was likely much higher. At that point, only 2% percent of India's 1.3 billion population was fully vaccinated, and the country's national government had been slow in placing orders for more vaccines. Without a massive stockpile, states in India began to run out of the limited number of jabs they had.India then decided to stop the export of all vaccines, preventing SII from keeping up with its commitments elsewhere.A brutal second wave of Covid-19 hit India in spring 2021."I've always been a patriot for my country ... and if my country needs my facility first, I have to do what they say," Poonawalla said. "There was no two ways about that."The inability to export vaccines hurt some of the poorest nations in the world. The director of Africa's disease control body, for example, warned India's hold on exports could be "catastrophic" for the continent. People in several countries, from neighboring Nepal to Kenya, were left stranded after receiving the first dose of Covishield, the name of the India-manufactured vaccine.When asked why the global vaccine alliance chose to rely so heavily on one manufacturer, a Gavi spokesperson told CNN Business it had few options. At the start of 2021, "very few vaccines were approved and available for deployment," the spokesperson said, adding that it was "natural" that SII would be contracted for early doses given its size. But public health expert Jeffrey Lazarus said there were flaws in the plan. "Relying on one manufacturer was a mistake, which is easier to see in hindsight," said Lazarus, who heads the health systems research group at the Barcelona Institute for Global Health.Being held to accountWhile Poonawalla cannot be held responsible for some of the issues that led to the vaccine rollout stalling — chief among them, India's massive outbreak — his detractors have questioned parts of his approach. They point out Poonawalla hasn't delivered the number of jabs he initially promised, and they claim he hasn't been transparent about how he's been using all of the money he raised for the big vaccine push."There isn't much accountability for where the money he raised went," Malini Aisola, co-convenor of health sector watchdog All India Drug Action Network, told CNN Business. In June last year, SII pledged it would make one billion doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine for low and middle income countries, with 400 million doses ready by the end of 2020. But by January 2021, the company had a stockpile of just 70 million doses. His critics weren't impressed, given the amount of capital he raised last year. SII declined to comment on the amount it has made from its vaccine production so far. Poonawalla called it "very unreasonable and naive" for people to expect companies not to profit from these efforts.The global media coverage also turned unfavorable, with headlines linking the global shortfall in vaccines to SII's problems, including the India export ban and a fire at the company's Pune facility. At the time Poonawalla said the fire had no effect on Covishield production. But he has since reversed course, saying that the incident has played a major role in hampering manufacturing.He also insists he was realistic about his goals. "We always underpromise," Poonawalla told CNN Business, when asked whether the company pledged more than it could deliver. Still, he's been dogged by other controversies that have dented his reputation. As India's Covid-19 cases were skyrocketing in April, Poonawalla lowered the price of his vaccine and referred to the move as a "philanthropic gesture" — leading to heavy criticism, with activists pointing out that even a small profit is still a profit for SII."AstraZeneca has pledged that it won't make profits from low income and middle income countries during the pandemic, but that does not seem to apply to SII," Aisola said. According to AstraZeneca, the companies the drugmaker has sublicensing agreements with, including SII, dictate their own prices. SII declined to comment on how much it has profited from the vaccine efforts so far, but Poonawalla said it is a "very unreasonable and naive way of looking at the world" for people to expect companies not to profit from the vaccine. While Poonawalla has yet to match his lofty goals, there is a chance that he and SII can get back on track, which is critical to ending vaccine inequality worldwide. India has decided to begin exporting vaccines once again as its own rate of inoculation increases. The nation had administered one billion doses by October — about 90% of which came from SII, according to the company.SII also says that it has increased its production to 220 million doses a month as of October. SII is also expanding its partnerships, having signed a deal with American biotech firm Novavax to manufacture its Covid-19 vaccine, which is awaiting regulatory approvals. It's also partnering with the Russian Direct Investment Fund on production of the Sputnik vaccine.







India's next big thing could be worth $1 trillion
https://edition.cnn.com/2021/09/09/tech/india-software-saas-intl-hnk/index.html
New Delhi (CNN Business)More than two decades ago, India began its transformation into a global IT powerhouse, ushering in an era of wealth and job creation never before seen in the country. Now, Asia's third largest economy is ready for the next big frontier in tech: Coming up with a new generation of software companies like Zoom or Slack.The Covid-19 pandemic has forced business around the world to make huge investments in digital infrastructure, furthering the influence of companies providing software-as-a-service, or SaaS. Businesses spent an extra $15 billion per week last year on tech as they scrambled to create safe remote working environments, according to a KPMG survey. TCS employs more than 500,000 people. It's ready to ditch office life for many in IndiaSaaS companies provide web-based applications that take care of everything from how secure the software is to how well it performs. Some of the world's most well-known SaaS companies include Zoom (ZM), SAP Concur and Salesforce (CRM), the American behemoth that owns workplace messaging app Slack.India's software-as-a-service industry could be worth $1 trillion in value by 2030 and create nearly half a million new jobs, according to a recent report compiled by consulting firm McKinsey & Co. and SaaSBoomi, a community of industry leaders.Read MoreThere are nearly a thousand such companies in India, of which 10 are unicorns, or startups worth at least $1 billion, the report said. "This can be as big an opportunity as the IT services industry was in the 90s," said Girish Mathrubootham, CEO of Freshworks, India's best-known SaaS company. It filed for an IPO last month, joining a string of other major Indian tech unicorns that are going public this year. Freshworks was founded more than a decade ago in the southern Indian city of Chennai. Like Salesforce, it provides software to help companies manage relations with their customers. It's also India's oldest unicorn in the sector, having raised funds from investors such as Tiger Global and Accel, and has more than 50,000 customers. The company was last valued at $3.5 billion in a 2019 funding round, according to data firm Tracxn. Other Indian SaaS firms have found traction by focusing on niche businesses. Zenoti, for example, is a unicorn that builds software for the spa and beauty salon industry. Of India's 10 SaaS unicorns, six reached that milestone in 2020, and investors around the world are paying attention. Last year, investors pumped $1.5 billion into Indian SaaS companies, four times more than in 2018 or 2019, according to the SaaSBoomi report. Bullish investorsInvestors are excited about SaaS because of the "massive adoption" of software over the last decade, according to Mohit Bhatnagar, managing director of Sequoia Capital India.Girish Mathrubootham, CEO and founder of Freshworks, a "SaaS" or "Software-as-a-service" company founded in Chennai, India.While India is a small player in the global SaaS market, investors say the country could eventually dominate the sector because of two things: its vast pool of English-speaking developers, and the relatively low cost of hiring them.Thanks to the rise of India's IT industry, software engineering has become one of the most sought-after career options in the country. "India actually has one of the largest developer communities in the world," Bhatnagar told CNN Business. Many of them have worked at some of the biggest global tech companies.Abhinav Asthana, the co-founder of Postman, pointed to his experience working as an intern at Yahoo in Bengaluru as instrumental in the decision to build his product. He came up with the idea to build a tool that would simplify the API (Application Programming Interface) testing process. An API is a programming code that defines how two applications communicate with each other, and Postman says it has made it easier for engineers to work together as they design and build their APIs. "We saw how software was created at these global companies, and we saw API was a key problem," Asthana told CNN Business.Now, Postman is India's most valuable SaaS unicorn, with a valuation of $5.6 billion.International clients, Indian engineersThe low cost of operating in India is a big plus. According to a report by consulting firm Bain & Company, the salary of entry-level developers in India is 85% less than their counterparts in the United States.Abhinav Asthana, CEO and co-founder of Postman in India."If you are building a SaaS company in the US, it is better to have a million-dollar client rather than a $10,000-client because you need to pay for sales and marketing in that country," said Prasanna Krishnamoorthy, managing partner at SaaS accelerator Upekkha. "When you are serving customers from India, you can have these small and mid-sized companies, as well as large ones."Most SaaS companies focus on global clients, similar to the strategy that was followed by India's IT giants such as TCS and Infosys (INFY). Investors see this as a welcome change, since most of India's oldest unicorns — from Flipkart to Paytm — have focused primarily on the domestic market.Almost 98% of Fortune 500 companies use Postman's products, according to Asthana, while Freshworks' first client was based in Australia. SaaS firms are much better placed to go global than e-commerce companies like India's Flipkart, for example. They write software once, and then are able to use it multiple times.India is churning out billion-dollar startups. Now they need to start making money"For a Flipkart you need billions of dollars [to grow internationally], but for a Freshwork you need much less capital to go global," said Mathrubootham, who is also an investor in Postman. This is because e-commerce firms require a ton of money to set up physical operations elsewhere — they have to hire delivery drivers, rent warehouses and buy inventory.Bhatnagar of Sequoia Capital said that Indian software entrepreneurs "mastered" the art of "remote sales" fairly early. "Honestly, in this last two years, the whole world has had to understand how to do better remote sales," he added.Despite the euphoria, there are some hurdles Indian companies have to overcome before they can deliver on the $1 trillion promise. Indian engineers trained in the IT services industry may find it hard to develop the discipline required to build a product-focused company.In IT services, "you are selling bodies and you say yes to everything the customer says," said Krishnamoorthy. SaaS companies, on the other hand, have to say no to 99% of [potential] customers, he added. And India's startup ecosytem is still relatively immature when compared to Silicon Valley. Despite the massive size of some homegrown unicorns, Mathrubootham said that the country does not have a "global tech powerhouse product brand." But he hoped that future SaaS companies can change that. "It is my personal dream to see India as a product nation," he added.







Here's why crypto experts are shrugging off the bitcoin crash
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/06/15/investing/bitcoin-crash-crypto/index.html
New York (CNN Business)Cryptocurrency is having a terrible week. And it's only Wednesday. Still, long-term investors are shrugging off the extreme drops in the a value of digital coins and the breakdown of the exchanges that make them available to investors. Bitcoin, the world's most valuable cryptocurrency, dropped to near $21,000 Wednesday. It's lost a quarter of its value since Friday and is sitting nearly 70% below its high of $68,000 per coin in November. Ether, the second most valuable digital currency, has lost about a third of its value since Friday and has dropped 75% below its highs.More concerning are the structural problems rendering it impossible for investors to withdraw their money from crypto exchanges. Binance, the world's biggest cryptocurrency exchange, paused withdrawals for a few hours Monday, saying some transactions had gotten "stuck." The Celsius Network, which has 1.7 million users, temporarily halted withdrawals due to "extreme market conditions." They did not say when they would reopen the exchanges, indicating only that it would "take time." Coinbase, the largest cryptocurrency exchange in the United States by trading volume, announced Tuesday that it would lay off about 18% of its workforce, citing a recession that "could lead to another crypto winter, and could last for an extended period."Read MoreIt's only June. Winter is coming. Coinbase lays off 18% of its workforce and warns of 'crypto winter'So far, at least, leaders in the cryptosphere aren't too worried. They say that this is par for the course and that a bear market in crypto isn't the same as a bear market for stocks: the lows are more extreme, but then so are the highs. "Crypto bear markets usually draw down between 85% and 90%," said Jason Yanowitz, co-founder of Blockworks, a research platform for crypto investors, executives and builders. In the last decade, two prolonged crypto downturns saw bitcoin lose more than 80% of its value, but the coin bounced back — and then some. During the 2017 to 2018 crypto bear market, bitcoin plummeted 83%, from $19,423 to $3,217. But by November of 2021, the coin was valued at $68,000. During the same period etherium fell from $1,448 to $85, a drop of about 95%. In November of 2021 the coin was valued at $4,850. The bear market between 2013 and 2015 also saw bitcoin fall about 82%, from $1,127 to $200."If you bought [bitcoin] at the peak of the 2017 bull run (around $20,000), you saw a decline of 80% over the following year. But if you continued to hold, you'd be up nearly 60% right now — even after the crypto market's most recent decline from all-time highs last November," said Felix Honigwachs, CEO of Xchange Monster.Bitcoin plunges below $23,000 as the crypto meltdown continuesGiven how new crypto is (it started in 2009), said Yanowitz, it's naturally more volatile. He points to Amazon (AMZN), whose stock price reached highs of $113 per share in the late 90s internet boom before crashing by 95% to $5.51. It closed Tuesday at $102.31, but before its 20-1 stock split went into effect June 6, it was trading well above $2,000 per share."I really disagree with the folks who say there's no way to recover from something like this," said Yanowitz. "I think people look at crypto and think it's weird or that it's not real. If you don't think crypto is real you probably think it's overvalued." But this drawdown isn't nearly as bad as the last crypto bear market, he added.Other tech stocks are down significantly right now, he said, not just cryptocurrency. Shares of Uber (UBER) have fallen over 50% year-to-date, Lyft (LYFT) is down 67% and Netflix (NFLX) has tumbled nearly 72%. Still, there are major concerns about digital currency. Fewer investors were exposed to crypto's steep drops during the last downturn, so more now stand to lose money this time around. Some new crypto-adjacent companies may also falter during the downturn in this crowded crypto market, but coin values will likely advance again in the long term, John Browning, co-founder and managing director of BAND Financial said in a note Tuesday. As Warren Buffett famously said, "It's only when the tide goes out that you learn who's been swimming naked."







Bill Gates says crypto and NFTs are a sham
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/06/15/tech/bill-gates-crypto-nfts-comments/index.html
New York (CNN Business)Don't count Bill Gates among the fans of cryptocurrencies and NFTs.Those digital asset trends are "100% based on greater fool theory," the Microsoft co-founder said Tuesday at a TechCrunch conference, referencing the notion that investors can make money on worthless or overvalued assets as long as people are willing to bid them higher.Gates added that he's "not long or short" crypto. And he mocked Bored Apes NFTs, joking that "expensive digital images of monkeys" will "improve the world immensely."Instead, Gates said he prefers old fashioned investing. "I'm used to asset classes, like a farm where they have output, or like a company where they make products," he said.Read MoreHis comments come as bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies are crashing. Bitcoin hit an all-time high of $69,000 in November 2021. Since then, the world's most valuable cryptocurrency has lost two-thirds of its value, tumbling below $23,000 on Tuesday. It has lost about 25% of its value since Friday.Crypto exchange Coinbase announced that it's laying off 18% of its employees as the digital currency market continues to crumble. Gates has previously doubted crypto. In a 2021 interview with Bloomberg, Gates said that it was one thing for Elon Musk and Tesla to invest in bitcoin, but that doesn't mean average investors should follow that lead."I do think people get bought into these manias, who may not have as much money to spare," Gates said. "So I'm not bullish on bitcoin." 







Bitcoin has crashed more than 30% this week
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/06/15/investing/bitcoin-price-20000/index.html
London (CNN Business)Bitcoin continues to tumble this week to trade just above $20,000 on Wednesday as the cryptocurrency sell-off shows little sign of abating. The world's most valuable cryptocurrency has fallen about 15% since Monday, and by nearly a third since Friday, according to data from crypto exchange Coinbase. The coin has lost around 70% of its value since its all-time high in November last year, when it traded around $69,000.Falling below the $20,000 barrier would be a sobering milestone for a market that boomed during the pandemic, analysts say. "A move below $20,000 would be a massive psychological blow and could send bitcoin further into a tailspin," Craig Erlam, senior market analyst at Oanda, a foreign exchange firm, said in a note on Tuesday. Ether, the second-most valuable digital coin, slipped 12% on Thursday. It has now lost 78% of its value since its November peak. Read MoreAs the world's major central banks hike interest rates to bring inflation under control, traders have dumped their riskier investments, which include volatile crypto assets. The embattled industry is bracing for further pain. Coinbase said on Tuesday that it would lay off about 1,000 of its staff — making up 18% of its workforce — citing fears of an impending economic downturn and a "crypto winter." The company's stock has taken a hammering since its initial public offering in April last year. Once worth almost $100 billion, it is now valued at less than $12 billion. The Celsius Network, one of the world's biggest cryptocurrency lenders, announced on Monday that "extreme market conditions" had forced it to temporarily halt all withdrawals, crypto swaps and transfers between accounts.The company told its 1.7 million customers that has taken the decision to "stabilize liquidity and operations while we take steps to preserve and protect assets." It said it would "take time" before customers were allowed to withdraw deposits again.Binance, the world's largest cryptocurrency exchange, suspended withdrawals on its bitcoin network for a few hours on Monday after some transactions got "stuck" and caused a backlog.— Jordan Valinsky contributed to this report. 







Coinbase lays off 18% of its workforce
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/06/14/investing/coinbase-layoffs-bitcoin-crypto/index.html
New York (CNN Business)Crypto exchange Coinbase is laying off 18% of its employees as the digital currency market continues to crumble.CEO Brian Armstrong said in an open letter Tuesday that the "difficult decision" to lay off about 1,000 employees was made to ensure "we stay healthy during this economic downturn." The exchange has more than 4,900 employees, according to its website.Armstrong warned of a looming economic downturn that could extend the latest bear market for crypto."We appear to be entering a recession after a 10-plus year economic boom," Armstrong wrote. "A recession could lead to another crypto winter, and could last for an extended period." Although Armstrong said it's difficult to predict future economic conditions, the company plans "for the worst so we can operate the business through any environment." Read MoreCoinbase's market value has imploded as investors continue to sell off crypto, bailing out of risky assets in anticipation of sharp increases in interest rates to tackle inflation.Bitcoin hit an all-time high of $69,000 in November 2021. Since then, the world's most valuable cryptocurrency has lost two-thirds of its value, tumbling below $23,000 Tuesday. It has lost about 25% of its value since Friday.Meanwhile, Coinbase's stock is down about 80% this year and 85% since its initial public offering in April 2021. The company, which was once worth nearly $100 billion, is now worth less than $12 billion.In his blog post, Armstrong admitted that Coinbase "grew too quickly" as crypto trading boomed in early 2021. "While we tried our best to get this just right, in this case it is now clear to me that we over-hired," he said. Other market players are struggling too. The Celsius Network, a major lender of cryptocurrencies, said Monday that it was suspending all withdrawals and transactions because of "extreme market conditions."— CNN Business' Anna Cooban contributed to this report.







$1 billion has been lost in cryptocurrency scams since 2021, FTC warns
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/06/04/business/cryptocurrency-scammers-ftc-warning/index.html
New York (CNN)Cryptocurrency scammers have stolen over $1 billion from 46,000 people since the start of 2021, a new Federal Trade Commission report says. The FTC rang the alarm bells on Friday, saying crypto-related crimes amount to about one out of every four dollars reported lost to fraud -- more than any other payment method. The median individual reported loss was $2,600.Crypto is dead. Long live cryptoThe vast majority of those who reported being bilked used Bitcoin to pay scammers, at 70%, followed by Tether and Ether. The victims typically are part of a younger age group -- those aged 25-40 are three times as likely to lose money due to fraud. Crypto scams are becoming increasingly popular, shooting up 60 times higher than in 2018. It has all the elements that give scammers an advantage -- no bank to flag suspicious transactions, irreversible transfers and novice investors that are often largely unfamiliar with how crypto works.The FTC's warning comes at a volatile time in the crypto market. Since Bitcoin hit its peak of $69,000 in November, it's lost more than half its value as investors have pulled out of riskier assets due to rising interest rates.Read MoreNearly half of those who reported losing money to a crypto scam in 2021 said they were lured in through an online post or social media message. More than half of the posts were seen on Facebook or Instagram. Fake investment opportunities were behind $575 million of all crypto losses reported to the FTC, far more than any other fraud type."The stories people share about these scams describe a perfect storm: false promises of easy money paired with people's limited crypto understanding and experience," the FTC report said. In February, a federal grand jury in San Diego indicted the founder of BitConnect for allegedly orchestrating a $2.4 billion global Ponzi scheme. The founder was accused of misleading investors about the cryptocurrency's "lending program," claiming the company's proprietary technology would bring substantive returns to investors by tracking cryptocurrency exchange markets.Bitcoin is imploding. But you wouldn't know it from checking out Formula 1 racesAnd in May, the CEO of Mining Capital Coin was indicted for "allegedly orchestrating a $62 million global investment fraud scheme" that promised sizable returns from mining new cryptocurrencies. In both cases, scammers promised substantial returns to their investors, but instead pocketed the money into their own crypto wallets. Last month, the SEC announced it was hiring more than a dozen new employees to combat cryptocurrency fraud. The FTC said there are steps to take to avoid getting scammed. The first is to steer clear of anyone who promises guaranteed returns. "No cryptocurrency investment is ever guaranteed to make money, let alone big money," the FTC said. A legitimate investment also will never require you to buy cryptocurrency, the FTC said. Romance scams also play a role in this kind of fraud -- with a median individual reported crypto loss of $10,000. The FTC also warned not to mix online dating and investment advice. "If a new love interest wants to show you how to invest in crypto, or asks you to send them crypto, that's a scam," the FTC said. 







Young shoppers love buy now, pay later. Here's why that might be a problem
https://edition.cnn.com/videos/business/2022/06/27/buy-now-pay-later-zw-orig.cnn-business
New US bank operates 100% in Spanish
https://edition.cnn.com/videos/business/2022/06/30/seis-bank-spanish-speaking-start-up-fresh-money-orig.cnn
This is how much a restored Jaguar with electric power will cost you
https://edition.cnn.com/videos/business/2022/06/23/lunaz-ceo-david-lorenz-intv-firstmove-intl-vpx.cnn
Amazon introduces new warehouse robot, says it's not replacing human workers
https://edition.cnn.com/videos/business/2022/06/22/amazon-first-fully-autonomous-mobile-robot-orig-ht.cnn-business
Apple released the first iPhone 15 years ago. See CNN's report on its debut in 2007
https://edition.cnn.com/videos/business/2022/06/29/iphone-debut-15-years-vault-orig-ht.cnn-business
These apps are trying to put car dealers out of business
https://edition.cnn.com/2021/07/15/business/whim-app-helsinki-spc-intl/index.html
London (CNN Business)City dwellers are used to switching between apps to decide the best way to get from A to B. Is it quickest to get the train or the bus? What about a taxi or a city bike? Which provider has the nearest e-scooter?It can be inconvenient and time consuming. Which is why Finnish startup MaaS Global decided to aggregate all these services into one app called Whim. Available in more than 10 cities across Europe and Asia, users can access taxis, buses, bikes, e-scooters and rental cars. "Whim's sole purpose is to compete against car ownership," CEO Sampo Hietanen tells CNN Business.According to the International Energy Agency, transport is responsible for 24% of global energy-related CO2 emissions, most of which come from passenger vehicles. If Whim can persuade users to trade their car keys for a single app offering multiple transport options, the environmental impact could be enormous, says Hietanen. Car competitionRead MoreHe admits this isn't an easy task. To succeed Whim has to be more convenient and cheaper than owning a car. "The car represents freedom of mobility," says Hietanen — even if a city dweller barely uses it, they still keep it parked outside as a "freedom insurance."To compete, Whim offers rental cars and taxis, but Hietanen says that users tend to opt for public transport or micromobility (shared lightweight vehicles such as bikes or e-scooters). The app was launched in Helsinki but is now available in several European and Asian cities.Users can choose between multiple tiers of service, including a pay-as-you-go option and a 30-day season ticket, which costs €62 ($73) in Helsinki — where the app is most established — for unlimited public transport and short taxi rides. The ticket also offers car rental from €55 ($65) per day.While Helsinki has well-developed alternatives to driving, that's not true of everywhere. If a city "does not have a wide public transport system or a lot of rental cars or taxis in place" then it will be difficult to convince people to give up their cars, says Maria Kamargianni, associate professor of transport and energy at University College London.She says apps like Whim represent the first step in tempting people away from car ownership, and adds that the availability of alternative transport options is likely to improve as the market matures. Research firm MarketsandMarkets predicts the global mobility service market will grow from $4.7 billion in 2020 to $70.4 billion by 2030. MaaS movementOther providers include Citymapper, which launched a travel pass for Londoners in 2019, and Moovit, which launched an all-in-one mobility app in Israel last year. Whim, launched in 2016, is one of the earliest providers and has raised more than $60 million from investors such as BP (BP), Mitsubishi (MBFJF) and Toyota Financial Services. It's available in several European cities and in Tokyo, and has racked up 18 million trips globally since launch. But the business has been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, says Hietanen; with fewer people traveling, revenues are lower, stalling the company's expansion into other cities.According to Whim, public transport and micromobility are the most popular ways to travel using the app. Finnish newspaper Helsingin Sanomat recently reported that the company had spent €50 million ($59 million) on failed expansion ventures. Hietanen says the money was spent on integrating multiple transportation providers, establishing market readiness in several countries, and developing the complex technology that underpins the app. "We've known from the beginning that the investment needed to create this would be substantial," he says, adding that the company has recently secured further investment. Greener travelThough the industry is in its infancy, Hietanen is confident the demand will be there. A recent report from the International Transport Forum (ITF) says that mobility services will be vital in meeting the needs of a growing world population and fast-paced urbanization. But for growth to happen, "people must choose it over other travel options" such as private motor vehicles.This is already happening, says Hietanen. According to a company survey carried out in Helsinki, 12% of its users said that Whim had prompted them to give up their cars. "People want the more sustainable solution," he says, "but they still want the freedom of being able to go anywhere, anytime."







Electric robots are mapping the seafloor, Earth's last frontier
https://edition.cnn.com/2021/10/26/tech/seatrec-bedrock-robot-seabed-mapping-climate-spc-hnk/index.html
 (CNN Business)For centuries, humans have explored the Earth's mountains, jungles and deserts. But despite covering more than 70% of the Earth's surface, the ocean is still a relative mystery. In fact, we know more about the surface of Mars than we do about the sea floor; just over 20% of the ocean bed has been mapped.  Getting a fuller picture would enable us to navigate ships more safely, create more accurate climate models, lay down telecommunication cables, build offshore windfarms and protect marine species -- all part of what's known as the "blue economy," projected to be worth $3 trillion by 2030.Underwater robotic vehicles equipped with sensors are helping gather that data quicker and more cheaply than ever before. But many of these vehicles rely on batteries with a limited lifespan, and need to return to a boat or the shore to recharge, making it difficult for them to map more remote parts of the sea. A five-year-old startup called Seatrec is rising to the challenge, founded by oceanographer Yi Chao. While working at NASA, he developed technology to power ocean robots by harnessing "the naturally occurring temperature difference" of the sea, Chao told CNN Business. Greener and cheaperRead MoreThe power module can be installed on existing data-gathering robots or Seatrec's own floating device. This dives a kilometer down to examine the chemistry and shape of the seabed, using sonar to create a map of the surrounding area. The robot returns to the surface to send back its findings via satellite.Seatrec's float uses differences in ocean temperature to power itself.As the float moves between colder and warmer parts of the ocean, material inside the module either melts or solidifies, causing pressure that in turn creates thermal energy and powers the robot's generator."They get charged by the sea, so they can extend their lifetime almost indefinitely," Chao said.This underwater concrete attracts marine life and gets stronger at the same timeA basic float model typically costs around $20,000. Attaching Seatrec's energy system adds another $25,000, Chao said.But the access to free, renewable energy and the ability to stay in the water longer makes data gathering up to five times cheaper in the long run, according to Chao. He said the startup is making fewer than 100 devices per year, primarily for marine researchers, but the technology is easily scalable -- Seatrec's energy module can also be can be retrofitted onto existing mapping devices to extend their range. Picking up the paceNew technologies that can extend the reach of data-gathering devices are crucial for mapping more remote parts of the deep sea, according Jamie McMichael-Phillips, director of the Nippon Foundation-GEBCO Seabed 2030 Project. "One of the huge challenges we have is quite simply physics," said McMichael-Phillips. "Unlike mapping the Earth's surface where we can use a camera [or] satellites, at sea, light does not penetrate through the water column. So we're pretty much limited to using sonar systems." How 3D printing could help save Hong Kong's coralLaunched in 2017, the Seabed 2030 Project has increased awareness about the importance of the ocean floor, and given researchers and companies a clear goal to work towards: map the entire seafloor by the end of this decade. Some companies, such as XOCEAN, are surveying the ocean from the surface. Another startup, Bedrock Ocean Exploration, says it can provide surveys of seabed areas up to 10 times faster than traditional methods by using an autonomous electric submarine fitted with sonars, cameras and lasers; the data is then analyzed on Bedrock's own cloud platform.Bedrock Ocean Exploration uses an autonomous electric submarine fitted with sonars, cameras and lasers.The challenge aheadEven with the growing number of technologies accelerating seabed exploration, completing the map is still a logistical and financial challenge. This vegan 'tech-style' startup wants to make clothes using algae Chao estimates that it would take 3,000 of Seatrec's floats operating over the next 10 years to fully survey the ocean. The company has raised $2 million in seed funding to scale up production of its energy harvesting system.But this is a drop in the ocean of the capital needed to fully survey the ocean, which is estimated to be "somewhere between $3 to $5 billion," according to McMichael-Phillips -- "pretty much the same order of magnitude as the cost of sending a mission to Mars."Bedrock's DiMare believes it's time we start investing in our own planet."If we want to keep Earth as a place that humans can live," he said, "we have got to get a lot smarter about what's going on in the ocean."







How this South African adhesive helped get the NASA Apollo missions to the moon
https://edition.cnn.com/videos/business/2021/10/22/marketplace-africa-profit-point-pratley-group-ceo-andrew-pratley-spc.cnn
